about the agency 

 the agency for care effectiveness ( ace ) was established by the ministry of health ( singapore ) to drive better decision - making in healthcare by conducting health technology assessments ( hta ) , publishing healthcare guidance and providing education . ace develops acgs to inform specific areas of clinical practice . acgs are usually reviewed around five years after publication , or earlier , if new evidence emerges that requires substantive changes to the recommendations . to access this acg online , along with other acgs published to date , please visit www.ace-hta.gov.sg/acg 

 find out more about ace at www.ace-hta.gov.sg/about-us 

 © agency for care effectiveness , ministry of health , republic of singapore

2 - hg , 2 - hour post - load glucose ; bmi , body mass index ; cvd , cardiovascular disease ; fpg , fasting plasma glucose ; hba1c , glycated haemoglobin ; ifg , impaired fasting glucose ; igt , impaired glucose tolerance ; ogtt , oral glucose tolerance test ; t2dm , type 2 diabetes mellitus 

 * * if fpg ≥ 7.0 mmol / l , 2 - hg ≥ 11.1 mmol / l , or hba1c ≥ 7 % , proceed to manage as per t2dm . 

 †† if hba1c ≥ 7 % , proceed to manage as per t2dm . if hba1c does not improve and < 7 % , consider investigating for t2dm with fpg or ogtt after a metformin washout period ( such as 1–2 weeks ) .

agency for care effectiveness ( ace ) 

 college of medicine building 

 16 college road singapore 169854 

 driving better decision - making in healthcare

© agency for care effectiveness , ministry of health , republic of singapore 

 all rights reserved . reproduction of this publication in whole or in part in any material form is prohibited without the prior written permission of the copyright holder . application to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed to : ace_hta@moh.gov.sg 

 suggested citation : www.ace-hta.gov.sg/about-us

© agency for care care effectiveness ( ace ) . managing pre - diabetes – a growing health concern . appropriate care guide ( acg ) , ministry of health , singapore . 2021 . available from : go.gov.sg/acg-managing-pre-diabetes-a-growing-health-concern 

 the ministry of health of ministry of health , singapore disclaims any and all liability to any party for any direct , indirect , implied , punitive or other consequential damages arising directly or indirectly from any use of this acg , which is provided as is , without warranties . 

 agency for care effectiveness ( ace ) 

 college of medicine building

diagnosis of pre - diabetes 

  1 

 in singapore , glucose thresholds in table 1 below are used to diagnose pre - diabetes ( impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance ) .

figure 1 . pathway for managing pre - diabetes 

  diagnosis of pre - diabetes 

 ifg : fpg 6.1–6.9 and 2 - hg < 7.8 mmol / l or screen for cvd risk factors , including hypertension and dyslipidaemia . 

 igt : fpg < 7.0 and 2 - hg 7.8–11.0 mmol / l

diabetes treatment : insulin 

 when you have diabetes , you may need to learn how to inject yourself with insulin . 

  what is insulin ? 

 insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas and released into our body cells to allow cells to convert blood glucose ( sugar ) for energy . food is converted into glucose before food is absorbed into our bloodstream . the function of insulin is to move the glucose from the bloodstream into the body cells for use or storage . people with diabetes are unable to fully use the glucose in people bloodstream either because people lack insulin in the body or insulin is ineffective for cells . 

  insulin therapy 

 treatment for type 1 diabetes involves dietary control and insulin injections . some patients with type 2 diabetes may also require insulin injections . insulin is not effective if taken by mouth , and has to be injected . 

  you must know how to : 

 - measure your insulin dose 
 - inject yourself ( and not rely on others ) 
 - adapt your diet and activity to your insulin injections 

  types of insulin 

 there are several types of insulin . others differ in how quickly others start to lower your blood glucose , the time taken to reach others highest activity , and how long others continue to work . 

  how to inject insulin 

 knowing where to inject your insulin will make the injection easier , safer and more comfortable . insulin is injected into the fatty area under the skin . after insulin is injected , insulin 

 source